Attention Is All You Need

Abstract:
The dominant sequence transduction models are based on complex recurrent or convolutional neural 
networks that include an encoder and a decoder. The best performing models also connect the encoder 
and decoder through an attention mechanism. We propose a new simple network architecture, the 
Transformer, based solely on attention mechanisms, dispensing with recurrence and convolutions 
entirely. Experiments on two machine translation tasks show these models to be superior in quality 
while being more parallelizable and requiring significantly less time to train. Our model achieves 
28.4 BLEU on the WMT 2014 English-to-German translation task, improving over the existing best 
results, including ensembles, by over 2 BLEU. On the WMT 2014 English-to-French translation task, 
our model establishes a new single-model state-of-the-art BLEU score of 41.0 after training for 
3.5 days on eight GPUs, a small fraction of the training costs of the best models from the literature.

1. Introduction:
Recurrent neural networks, long short-term memory and gated recurrent neural networks in particular, 
have been firmly established as state of the art approaches in sequence modeling and transduction 
problems such as language modeling and machine translation. Numerous efforts have since continued 
to push the boundaries of recurrent language models and encoder-decoder architectures.

Recurrent models typically factor computation along the symbol positions of the input and output 
sequences. Aligning the positions to steps in computation time, they generate a sequence of hidden 
states ht, as a function of the previous hidden state ht-1 and the input for position t. This 
inherently sequential nature precludes parallelization within training examples, which becomes 
critical at longer sequence lengths, as memory constraints limit batching across examples.

The Transformer avoids this problem by using attention mechanisms to capture global dependencies 
between input and output, dispensing with recurrence entirely. The Transformer allows significantly 
more parallelization and can reach a new state of the quality in translation after being trained 
for as little as twelve hours on eight P100 GPUs.

2. Model Architecture:
The Transformer follows an encoder-decoder structure. The encoder maps an input sequence of symbol 
representations to a sequence of continuous representations. Given this, the decoder then generates 
an output sequence of symbols one element at a time, consuming the previously generated symbols 
as additional input.

Encoder: The encoder is composed of a stack of N=6 identical layers. Each layer has two sub-layers. 
The first is a multi-head self-attention mechanism, and the second is a simple, position-wise 
fully connected feed-forward network. We employ a residual connection around each of the two 
sub-layers, followed by layer normalization.

Decoder: The decoder is also composed of a stack of N=6 identical layers. In addition to the two 
sub-layers in each encoder layer, the decoder inserts a third sub-layer, which performs multi-head 
attention over the output of the encoder stack.

3. Attention:
An attention function can be described as mapping a query and a set of key-value pairs to an output, 
where the query, keys, values, and output are all vectors. The output is computed as a weighted sum 
of the values, where the weight assigned to each value is computed by a compatibility function of 
the query with the corresponding key.

Scaled Dot-Product Attention: We compute the dot products of the query with all keys, divide each 
by sqrt(dk), and apply a softmax function to obtain the weights on the values.
Attention(Q, K, V) = softmax(QK^T / sqrt(dk))V

Multi-Head Attention: Instead of performing a single attention function with dmodel-dimensional 
keys, values and queries, we found it beneficial to linearly project the queries, keys and values 
h times with different, learned linear projections to dk, dk and dv dimensions, respectively.
MultiHead(Q,K,V) = Concat(head1,...,headh)W^O
where headi = Attention(QWiQ, KWiK, VWiV)

4. Position-wise Feed-Forward Networks:
In addition to attention sub-layers, each of the layers in the encoder and decoder contains a 
fully connected feed-forward network, which is applied to each position separately and identically. 
This consists of two linear transformations with a ReLU activation in between.
FFN(x) = max(0, xW1 + b1)W2 + b2
The dimensionality of input and output is dmodel=512, and the inner-layer has dimensionality dff=2048.

5. Positional Encoding:
Since the model contains no recurrence and no convolution, in order for the model to make use of 
the order of the sequence, we must inject some information about the relative or absolute position 
of the tokens in the sequence. To this end, we add positional encodings to the input embeddings 
at the bottoms of the encoder and decoder stacks.
PE(pos, 2i) = sin(pos / 10000^(2i/dmodel))
PE(pos, 2i+1) = cos(pos / 10000^(2i/dmodel))

6. Training:
We trained on the standard WMT 2014 English-German dataset consisting of about 4.5 million 
sentence pairs. We used byte-pair encoding, which has a shared source-target vocabulary of about 
37000 tokens. For English-French, we used the significantly larger WMT 2014 English-French dataset 
consisting of 36 million sentences.

We used the Adam optimizer with beta1=0.9, beta2=0.98 and epsilon=10^-9. We varied the learning 
rate over the course of training, using a warmup of 4000 steps.

We applied three types of regularization during training:
- Residual Dropout: We apply dropout to the output of each sub-layer, with rate Pdrop=0.1
- Label Smoothing: We employed label smoothing of value eps_ls=0.1
- The base model used dmodel=512, h=8, N=6, resulting in 65M parameters
- The big model used dmodel=1024, h=16, N=6, resulting in 213M parameters

7. Results:
On the WMT 2014 English-to-German translation task, the big transformer model outperforms the 
best previously reported models including ensembles by more than 2.0 BLEU, establishing a new 
state-of-the-art BLEU score of 28.4.

On the WMT 2014 English-to-French translation task, our big model achieves a BLEU score of 41.0, 
outperforming all of the previously published single models, at less than 1/4 the training cost 
of the previous state-of-the-art model.

The big transformer model was trained for 300,000 steps taking 3.5 days on 8 P100 GPUs.
The base model was trained using a single model obtained by averaging the last 5 checkpoints.
